# Analysis of the Relationship Between Molecular Similarity and Binding Affinity of PFAS with Nuclear Receptors

## Project Summary
This project utilizes a database of more than 10,000 PFAS molecules and uses the Molecular Operating Environment (MOE) to perform molecular docking to various human nuclear receptors to obtain docking scores. Chemical similarity indices (Tanimoto) are computed from Morgan fingerprints using RDKit, and statistical analyses are used to investigate the relationship between ligand similarity and predicted binding affinity. The results provide insight into whether structural similarity among a diverse of PFAS translates into similar receptor interactions, helping to prioritize compounds for future experimental validation.

## Introduction and Objectives
Per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS) are a class of molecules that gained a large amount of attention due to their negative effects on animal and plant health and persistence in the environment. PFAS have widely varying properties due to their diversity in structure. Many experimental and computational studies have been performed to gain perspective on PFAS interactions in the environment and in biological systems. In this project, molecular docking scores of PFAS to human nuclear receptors will be investigated as a function of chemical similarity indices to elucidate any correlation of PFAS similarity with binding affinity.
The objectives for this project include modeling the binding of 10,000+ PFAS to one or more human nuclear receptors (time-dependent) through molecular docking in MOE. Following docking, the Morgan fingerprints for the PFAS will be calculated and used to determine the chemical similarity of the PFAS relative to a highly studied PFAS molecule. Correlation between the chemical similarity indices and the binding affinity, as represented approximately by the docking scores generated by MOE, will be analyzed and visualized.

## Methodology
The EPA's PFAS Master List of PFAS Substances (RETIRED) was imported to Python as a Pandas dataframe, which can be cleaned by canonicalizing the Simplified Molecular Input Line Entry System (SMILES) strings and removing duplicate molecules. The dataset was imported to MOE, where 3D structures were generated from the canonical SMILES strings. Molecular docking was performed to a human nuclear receptor whose structure was obtained from Research Collaboratory for Structural Bioinformatics Protein Data Bank (RCSB PDB), and the docking scores were saved to a Pandas dataframe. The Morgan fingerprints were calculated for each molecule using RDKit, and the similarity indices were calculated relative to PFOS or PFOA based on the Morgan fingerprints. The docking scores were then plotted using Matplotlib as a function of similarity indices, and the Pearson and Spearman correlation coefficients were determined using SciPy. 

## Dependencies
Code for this project utilizes the Pandas, RDKit, SciPy, and Matplotlib libraries in Python. 